title: Your Website Probably Has Too Many Pages
appearance_title: |
  # <span>Your Website Probably</span>
  # <span>Has Too Many Pages</span>
author:
  - b1121989-84ba-4f24-b234-75840298571d
article_featured_image: /assets/img/article-images/post-its-1024x500.jpg
article_intro: "I've been looking at a few websites recently from potential clients wanting to update. Most of these websites where built about 5-7 years ago. That's usually a great time to rebuild with a modern design and updated coding standards. 5 to 7 year old websites were never built with mobile devices in mind, and they often have stale content on them. Usually, these websites were the businesses first foray into the web. A lot has changed since then."
article_content: |
  ## Pages Bloat
  One commonality I see amongst these older sites is the huge number of pages they have.
  
  There seemed to be a design trend several years ago that said that every business needed to have an about page, a contact page, and a single page for each service they offered. Perhaps it was because these pages all came with the template the business purchased.
  
  Indeed, if empty pages are there to begin with, you better fill them with **something**, right?
  
  Of course, that's no longer the case these days. Many companies have moved to smaller sites, or even single page sites. A lot of businesses are now putting content first and making sure that their web design should fit content, not the other way around.
  
  ## Each Page Should Earn Its Right to Exist
  When looking at how to best serve your customers going forward, always ask yourself why each page exists.
  
  You have [roughly 15 seconds](http://time.com/12933/what-you-think-you-know-about-the-web-is-wrong/) to catch most visitors attention. 15 seconds! That's not much time at all.
  
  For that reason, It's best to look how you can get your most compelling content in front of your visitors right away. That way you shout out who you are and what you offer in those first vital 15 seconds.
  
  Individual pages can be great for more determined visitors, but make sure you don't hide your best content from casual visitors who won't go past the landing page. They'll simply never see it.
  
  ## When Your Content Needs Its Own Page
  Some web content does, of course, deserve their own pages.
  
  If you find yourself sending out links directly to certain pages, such as specific products, then you should create yoursite.com/products. But, make sure that the product info is also front and center on your home page if that's what you want to highlight. Most casual visitors will never click on your products page, so get their attention right away.
  
  You should probably create a Contact page, and you should probably create a Newsletter page.
  
  Why? So that you can send visitors directly to that information if needed. You should be able to send a direct link if someone asks how best to contact you.
  
  ## Each Click Is a Barrier
  Contact pages don't generate sales on their own. About pages don't generate sales on their own. But, learning about your business, and being able to contact you, are likely two of the most important things a user can do on your site. Make those things easy for them. Don't hide them solely behind clicks.
  
  ## Each Site Is Different
  None of these ideas are universal truths. Each site is different and is built with different intentions, but taking a critical eye at your website content structure is a great way to see if there's too much valuable information hiding behind clicks.
  
  Look at your content and your intentions for your visitors. Do they align? Are visitors able to go where you want them to go with minimum resistance? Are you letting people know about what sets you part in the first 15 seconds?
tags: [ ]
categories:
  - marketing
  - resources
  - design
id: 7b4d46bd-4c96-41b6-ab68-46744a4b6dcd
